Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
So in the previous tutorial, we converted our training set
and our test set into these arrays composed of the users
in lines and the movies in columns.
And we did this because in this special structure,
that is the usual structure for any deep learning model
or even machinery model.
Well, the lines are going to be the observations
going into the network and the columns are the features
that are gonna be the input notes in the network.
So for each user, we will have its ratings
of all the movies, zeros included.
And these ratings are going to be the input note for
this observation going into the network.
And now that's when PyTorch comes into play.
Because very soon, we will start creating
the architecture of our neural network.
But, we will build this architecture with tensors,
PyTorch Tensors.
And so what are tensors?
Tensors are simply arrays that contain elements of
a single data type.
So, a tensor is a multidimensional matrix,
but instead of being a NumPy array, this is a PyTorch array.
And in fact, we could build a neural network
with NumPy arrays, but that would be much less efficient
and that's why we're using tensors,
as what we're about to do with the Torch Tensors.
And by the way with TensorFlow, we have exactly the same.
With TensorFlow, we work with tensors,
that are TensorFlow Tensors.
So another kind of tensor, another kind
of multidimensional matrix.
And so we could also implement our Autoencoders
from scratch with TensorFlow.
But I actually did that, and it turned out
that for Autoencoders, I preferred PyTorch much more
because not only I got better results,
and also this was much more simple.
So let's go for PyTorch.
Alright, so now what we have to do
in this very quick tutorial, is to convert our training_set
and our test_set, that are so far a list of lists,
into some Torch Tensors.
So, the training_set is going to be one torch.Tensor
and the test_set is going to be another torch.Tensor.
Like they are gonna be two separate
multidimensional matrices based on PyTorch.
And so this is going to be a very quick tutorial,
because the conversion is going to be very easy.
We will just use a class from the Torch library,
which will do the conversion itself.
So lets do this.
We're gonna take our training_set
So training_set and we'll give it a new value which will be,
this converted training_set into a torch.Tensor.
And so first we need to take Torch, so that's the library
and then dot and now we're gonna use the class FloatTensor
which will create an object of this class,
the subject will the torch.Tensor itself
and remember I told you that a torch.Tensor
is a multidimensional matrix with a single type,
and since we're taking the FloatTensor class,
well the single type is going to be Float.
So let's take the class FloatTensor with capitals F and T,
and inside this class we need to take one argument,
which has to be a list of lists, and of course this is
our old version of the training set.
And that's why we had to make this conversion here into
a list of lists, that's because the FloatTensor class
expects a lists of lists.
So let's input our old training_set,
set and that's basically all.
This will give the exact same matrix with the users in lines
and the movies in columns, but instead of being
a NumPy array, this will be a torch.Tensor.
And now we're gonna do the same for the test_set,
so I'm copying this line, pasting it below,
and now we're just going to replace training_set
by test_set.
test_set, here we go, we are ready to convert
our training_set and our test_set into Torch tensors.
Now I have to warn you, the training_set
and the test_set in Variable Explorer will disappear
and that's because the Variable Explorer pane in Spyder
doesn't recognize Torch tensors yet.
Remember the PyTorch is very recent, it was basically
released a few weeks ago, so it won't be recognized yet
in Variable Explorer in Spyder.
But don't worry, the variable will still exist,
only they will not displayed in Variable Explorer.
So let's check it out, I'm going to select this line
and execute to convert our training_set into a torch.Tensor.
And as you can see, the training_set disappeared,
but I guarantee you that it is still here,
and now we're gonna do the same for the test_set.
So, I'm selecting this line and execute.
And now the test_set also disappeared,
but it's now converted into a torch.Tensor,
and that's what we want.
So, perfect.
And now, I'm getting very excited because
in the next tutorial, we will be creating the architecture
of our neural network, that is our Autoencoders.
And even if we will have to make a class for it,
well you're gonna see that it's going to be so easy
and intuitive, and we're gonna have a lot of fun making it,
and you're gonna have a lot of fun using it afterwards
to change the architecture of your Autoencoders
to try other architectures.
Alright, so I'll see you in this exciting next tutorial,
and until then enjoy deep learning.